Have you ever thought about learning chess to develop your real-life skills? Yes, this is not an advertisement in a two-star rated magazine; it is a fact that I have experienced. I started learning chess when I was seven. My uncle told me the basics, such as knights moving in an L-shape, bishops covering the diagonals, etc. I did not consider these pieces some woody sculptures; I viewed them as living creatures. I learned chess, and I have acquired many fruitful skills ever since. I genuinely view chess as an amusing self-development course. This essay takes the reader on a long journey, presenting how chess has helped me develop patience and work under stress as well as acquire critical and analytical thinking.

I used to be someone who could not even wait for his friends if they were late for few minutes. I remember one time I was going to hang out with my friends, yet they were late for about ten minutes. As it might be expected, I could not help waiting and went back home. This example is a small instance of to which extent I was impatient. Regarding functioning when stressed,  being under stress, my performance used to plummet. On the other hand, chess needs quite the opposite. The average duration of chess games I have played is about two hours. I also do not remember a not stressful game, at least at some points during the game. When I was 15, I participated in a chess competition that was regularly hosted and arranged among churches. In this competition, there was a game that I would never forget. Actually, it was the first one. Since I started the game, I could barely cross the middle of the board with any of my pieces. My opponent put me on the verge of defeat numerous times. I still remember how his knights threatened my pieces, not even being able to create promising attacking chances on his king. There was a period in the game in which my blood ran cold. Unexpectedly, I could secure a win! After defending my king bravely, he blundered (seriously mistaken), and I took advantage of that. This situation has happened many times lifelong, helping me develop resilience. Now, I can perform as consistent as I perform in low-stakes cases. I have also gone a long way in being more patient. Now, I can think of a move for over 40 minutes without feeling overwhelmed! It is worth noting that this effect is not limited to the times during which I play chess. I currently do better during exams, which are undoubtedly stressful. I have experienced instructing and tutoring, which require patience.

Chess comprises five main aspects: opening, middle game, end game, tactics, and strategy, which is the main focus of this essay. Chess's strategic principles have changed my view of the world. For instance, one of the main strategic principles is called "the two bishops advantage." It simply considers the person who still has the two bishops on board more favorite to win. This assumption is mainly based on the fact that bishops are long-ranged. In other words, they cover many squares. Reflecting on real life, I understood that in order to have better chances in the life, I have to think on the long term along with the short one. Another principle is "knights backward moves." I consider this one crucial, believing that anyone should adopt it. It mainly focuses on some situations in which backward knight moves are the best. Vasily Ivanchok, a grandmaster and one of the best chess players in history, says that "the hardest moves in chess are those that include returning back with the knights." In real-life cases, I , and would argue that most people, are keen on rushing; they always work hard without rest and focus on the target they want to achieve. Nonetheless, I figured out that life does not go like that. I sometimes have to take a step back, exactly like the knights, to evaluate the whole case, investigate what I have done so far, eliminate any distortion, and plan for the rest of the journey. Hadn't I known this from chess, I would not have been able to make many fateful decisions. During the last semester, I had a kind of anxiety at some point as I did not know if I was doing well. I applied the notion here by taking a step back and looking at the whole picture, determining that I am doing a great job! This takes me to a more complex skill, which is analytical thinking. The topmost-rated players do not play a move without a plan. This means that they do not think like "this rook seems to be better on the h8 square. Let me get it there." Honestly, they sometimes do this when they are in a time trouble (have few seconds on the clock), but the mainstream is to have an idea that they are willing to achieve. This notion expresses the greatness of chess because many people can relate to it in real-life events. Have you considered your role in life or what you are doing in this world? Have you not figured out after a long period of time that you have spent an ample time aimless? Chess points to the severity of not having a plan in life. It may lead to depression and, in other cases, suicide! I was distracted in some periods of my life, targeted nothing, and achieved little. Yet, lately, I started following this guideline of having a purpose for everything I do.

This essay is a request to extend the definition of chess from being a game for people of high IQ to a guide to many superb life skills that everyone can follow. I shared my story with chess, which shows how beneficial it is to me to elucidate how impressive this game is!  
